---
title: Start Here
layout: page2
---

Welcome, this is a passion project of mine and has been marinating in my head for at least the last few years… I’ve taken a lot of notes and done a ton of reading and to be clear and up front I am still hashing out a majority of what I will be posting here myself. This writing is as much for me to clearly express to my own self what I think and believe as it is for you with the hopes of inspiring a better tomorrow. So what exactly is this passion project? Let’s first start with a little background to set the stage. I was raised in a reasonably typical conservative midwestern middle class family as a part of the Christian faith in a small town where most people at least knew who’s kid you were. Out of that upbringing by the time I was of voting age I was certainly of the republican mindset with some libertarian leanings toward the center and had already started to taper off from religious service attendance due to some of the hypocritical nature of the religious body. For most of my early life I kept with the family values that I was raised with and while I may not have always been gung ho about supporting the chosen republican candidates, I generally went with the flow as my inner libertarian streak did not support a single additional tax dollar leaving my pocket that surely any liberal candidate was coming for. In line step was my religious believe that while I continued to feel more distance from the Christian God, I never really stopped to question that belief. Life continued on a fairly traditional trajectory for most, got an entry level job, moved, worked part time through college, got a degree, got married, moved, got a better job, got divorced, moved, bought a house, sold a house, bought another house …

At one point during my marriage I had that the thought of “is this it? like really this is it? born, school, married, maybe kids, get old and die”. I place this here for context as I was already starting to have the inkling at not being existentially satisfied more than seven years ago. Now most of my life I have considered myself a futurist, having always loved technology and had dreams of how amazing society could be in a Star Trek sort of way. I have always been fascinated with the newest technology and learning about what cutting edge researchers are doing and that fascination has lead to a reasonably successful career in technology for myself. As it may be surmised at this point life has thrown me a few curveballs that has certainly put me on a significantly different trajectory than I was on a few short years ago which has caused me to do much re-evaluation of my life and beliefs. We are taught things from such an early age about what life should be like, what sort of path we should choose, what we should believe in and how we should expect it to turn out, that many of us never stop and really think for ourselves critically about what we are doing or what we believe.

In my re-evaluation of who I am and what I believe a side effect of this has been to on some level to be subtly evaluating the society we live in and how it relates to us and what we believe and how we relate back to society. While I strongly support the separation of church and state one can not deny that many times politics and religion are intrinsically linked and in some unfortunate periods of history were basically the same thing. 

Now I certainly will not claim to be a scholar in the arena of politics, religion, economics, or any other societal issue I may pose here, but having already been frustrated with the world we live in (being significantly exacerbated by the stupidity on facebook) in the lead up to the 2016 election I made it a point to broaden my view. I spent time reading The Communist Manifesto, Mein Kampf, Plato, Nitschke, Machiavelli, The Constitution, and Donald Trumps “Art of the Deal” (that while maybe a bit on the fluff side isn’t a terrible book) as I wanted to ensure I was informed and ready to discuss leading up to the election. At the time I was certainly frustrated with the state of politics in the United States and felt that due to his lack of political background (and presumption that he may be less in someones pocket because of it) that Trump could have been a big fresh breath of air for the country. He still wasn’t my first choice but due to the stupidity of only having a two party system we are regularly subjected to the battle of the biggest losers and having to choose one to fulfill our civic duty. While I have spent the last 4+ years continuing to read and think about what I believe and what sort of society I want to live in things have only seemingly got worse. While I was hopeful at the outset of Trumps presidency and do think he did more than people said he did, I also now think he was potentially of the crookedest presidents we have ever had, and while I can’t say how I would have liked him to have handled the pandemic I feel he failed at every level to guide us as a nation through it. Watching our division as a nation and the propagation of misinformation has convinced me more than ever that we need something else, we need a reboot. WE CAN BE BETTER! WE SHOULD BE BETTER. Which brings me back to what is this project?

My writings here are intended to be a ground up re-write of society and a look at religious views through a different lens. I know both of those things are huge and many of the thoughts and musings I have had may well be exceptionally contentious to being considered outright heresy. I intend to present things here in a few different ways, first of all will most likely be a semi utopian view of what we could achieve should we consider to try from a ground zero approach. Second, I do realize that the first is not very realistic, no matter how good of an idea it may be we don’t really get to start at ground zero. With that in mind, in addition to the semi utopian goal I will do my best to offer an opinion and process of how we can realistically move from our current state to be closer to the semi utopian state. My hope is that in sharing these bold musings we can come to a greater understanding of one another and how much potential the future could hold if we just tried and didn’t accept the status quo for every minute of every day. Lastly when it comes to spiritual considerations I ask that you read with an open mind. Whatever religion you may be if you were raised in it and didn’t come to it on your own in adulthood that qualifies as indoctrination (ie was questionably a choice on your part) and everyone should do some deep evaluation. Not only to see if you are living to the standard of your religion but do you even really understand your believe system outside of the high level which was taught to you as a child or from religious elders. Is there even sufficient evidence to believe it at all?

I hope to inspire others to think deeply about the sort of world we want to live and to show them they may be the only ones with big ideas or who are struggling with the way things are or what they believe. If you have big ideas about how to make the world a better place of thoughts on something I have wrote, please email them to me and let’s chat (please do keep it civil as I want this to be a discussion). Perhaps we can eventually even come up with actionable ideas that the powers that be will notice and we can start building the sort of world we want to live in and leave behind. I don’t know the answers but I would sure like to find some along the way.

What kind of world do you want to live in? Boldly Go …