---
title: Mega Corporations (Part 1)
layout: post
post-image: "../assets/images/weyland.png"
description: With great power comes great responsibility
tags:
- mega-corporation
- business
- corporation
- late capitalism
- regulation
- tax
---


So I'm going to preface this post with I expect successive follow ups and my ideas may change in this area. This post is more me spitballing some ideas that popped in my head the other day and I need to get them down before floating away. If you have been paying any attention at all this last year I'm certain you are aware of the discussions of what to do with mega corporations. You've probably seen news pieces about how they stifle smaller businesses or they don't pay taxes or mistreat their employees. Maybe you have seen discussion of antitrust and monopoly with government hearings around the likes of Amazon, Google, and Facebook. All of the above certainly cause feelings of resentment when you think about it but for most people it's not enough to step away from the convenience of the services offered by these goliaths.

Let's take a step back and be real honest with ourselves. The reason most people don't have a huge issue with or make a bigger deal about the points above is that creating a company that is so successful is essentially the American Dream (TM). Never mind the fact that the existence of such companies stifles others' abilities to create competitor companies and follow their own dreams.

So what do we do about these sorts of mega corporations? For additional consideration is Mega Corporations existence all that bad?

Having admitted that on some level we all dream of being so disgustingly successful, before I start talking about ways to improve where we are currently lets look at the inverse and consider how Mega Corporations can be good. The biggest thing that comes to mind is that due to their size, funding, and not being constrained by the bureaucracy of government they can take on projects others can't imagine. A great example of this is how Bezos, Branson, and Musk are all shooting for the stars and developing better space technology. That sort of endeavor is something that a company can only consider once its business model is so far past self sustaining they don't know what to do with the money. Proverbial moon shots most times are too risky even for governments to pursue so in a sense it is good to have behemoths in the private industry who continue to push forward in certain areas. We have technologies today that were essentially inconceivable a decade ago that without mega companies needing to solve mega sized problems would never have materialized. 

What I am trying to get at here is that without organizations of a certain size and scale many similar problems of size and scale would never be addressed. This can happen for a few reasons such as a smaller company even if its large in its own right may still be too small to face some of the growth hurdles that occur when you are designing for the largest most complex problems we are aware of and these are problems we need to face and solve. Another issue that can occur is some research efforts can take years and you need a company with deep pockets to sustain such an effort. For me the primary takeaway is that while there are certainly negative aspects of mega corporations and how they are set up and structured today, on some level we almost need them in order to tackle the most difficult problems and make headway for us as a species.

Now having explained why we may want to make room for mega corps we should also take a look at the darker side of such huge entities. As I touched on in my opening paragraph many of us are already aware that once a company gets to a certain size they can shut down outside innovation just because the little guy knows there is no way he can compete. Even if someone attempts to move into a mega corps space many times the answer for them is to just buy the little guy because even for the most resolute competitor there is always a number high enough when your playing in the space of giants for, who for all intents and purposes have unlimited funds. Many times company culture also suffer once mega status is reached because most employees are just a number (if that) to the decision makers. Between the average worker and someone who can affect change there may very well be a full dozen tiers in the authority hierarchy and many times (dare I even say most) the message will be lost or changed along the way. Next, and probably the largest gripe from the general populace about companies of this size is that many do not pay appropriate taxes. As we are structured today I don't have an issue with this as it is a feature of our tax code for companies who can afford to play the game, it's just good business. On a personal note, no company, especially not ones that make almost unquantifiable sums of money should be exempt from taxes. Finally, outside of all the issues detailed above the largest issue with a mega corporation is there ability to basically exist above the law, they are generally significantly more nimble than any legislation. When you're a multinational company with more money than even most governments can comprehend, most issues can be bought, buried, or lobbied away. In a sense a mega corporation is its own government, they play by their rules and no one else because they can.

So how can we make this better? How can we get the benefits of such corporate behemoths yet improve working conditions and ensure they pay taxes and have some form of regulation?

I think one of the most advantageous things we could do would be rather than stifle this American Dream (TM) but would be to work with it and make it work for us. What exactly do I mean? Well I have several ideas (most are variations of how corporate taxes work and to clarify I am considering any company valued at more than 250 billion). First consideration would be to put a flat corporate tax on any company of this size. Doesn’t matter what country the money was made in or where their bank accounts are just their country of origin. There are no exemptions to the tax if your gross is X and you didn't pay Y then you're evading your taxes. Maybe we decide that smaller companies can continue to play by the existing rules of today but once you cross that 250b line the rules change and there are no exemptions. You as a corporation have proved beyond wildly successful and you should want to be a good citizen of the world at that point. While no company will like this as an olive branch we will make it a bit easier for them and we will go ahead and make any corporate entity exempt from state corporate taxes and just increase the federal rate. This will do two things: 1) simplify a company's tax compliance and make it really easy for them to pay their taxes and 2) a percentage of the increased federal corporate tax will be evenly redistributed among the states. This should do a few things nationally, this should help redistribute economic opportunities more evenly throughout the country as it removes the benefit of incorporating in specific areas. It will also allow other less economically powerful states to reap the benefits of being part of an economically powerful whole. Additionally without the ability to consider tax minimization by basing a company out of a specific geographic region this may increase economic opportunities in more rural areas of the country as there is no onus to necessarily be based out of a specific locale. This is by far the most general idea but what if we go just a bit further?

As it stands today we know most of these companies pay very little if any in taxes, but what if we actually provided some level of incentive to these elite mega corporations to be good citizens? Rather than just making it a no holds bar you're going to pay taxes at X rate like above? For this group of companies which requires its own special tax code we could say their particular tax revenue goes to specific things that might in the end further benefit the companies. These incentives may look like investment in infrastructure for better road, rail, and air travel for Amazon. Faster more ubiquitous internet for Microsoft and Google. More stateside labs and research facilities for hospitals and drug companies. More R&D funding for batteries, satellites and other items that keep us a world leader in the areas in which this set of companies profit. Based on the [numbers](https://www.statista.com/statistics/263264/top-companies-in-the-world-by-market-capitalization/) total revenue of all US companies that make 250 billion or more is approximately 1.5 trillion. Which if we flat taxed them at 30% (remember state tax no longer applies) would net 451.4 billion in taxes. Let's assume we take 5% (approx 75b) off the top to redistribute to the states in lieu of their old tax rates that leaves us with about 375 billion a year. Please note the overall rate may need to be significantly higher to account for all the varying state rates but that level of detail is beyond this post. 

Another idea would be that for this select set of companies we cut their tax rate to zero but they are required re-invest 30+% of their revenue into R&D but that list of what is R&D'ed is specified by the government and is rank choice voted on by the populace every 4 years alongside the presidential election.

A final thought outside of tax rates is that all companies above the 250b mark should also be subject to special intellectual property law. If we go with something like the first scenario any and all the companies in this special bracket have full license to any research and development done by the government and would be granted special license to that IP for a period of 5 years before it was open to anyone. Or vice versa if its the second option where they have no taxes, any research and development they do is fully open and is not subject to any IP laws but they may receive a licensing fee (not to exceed 15% of profits) from it for up to 10 years.

These are just a few thoughts on how we could improve our relationship with these mega corporations and try to improve the world from their existence for a better tomorrow. Let me know your thoughts.


















